hello my name is rich our owner of
architectural builder supply this video
is to bring you a closer look at the
pemko as a surface mounted automatic
door bottom it's available in four
lengths from pemko the si1 is a 28 inch
length the sa-2 is 32 inch the SI 3 is
36 inch and the SI 4 is 42 inch and this
video has the sa-2 in it which is the 32
inch version and here's what it looks
like again this is 32 inch so it's kind
of hard to show it to you all on the
camera 1 camera few of you at one time
this and that's sticking out is the
hinge side and i'll give you a
description of how it works
here's the opposite side you can see
that it's flush well forgive me it's not
flush the vinyl is sticking out the end
is actually retracted a small amount and
I'll show you why that's the case
probably want to you probably have to
trim that and a little bit so the pemko
sa material it can be trimmed up to 2
inch in the field it can fill up two
gaps of 1/2 of an inch does not contour
against an uneven floor very well so
you'd want your floor to be basically
leveled as a half inch projection then
the overall height of the housing is
inch and three eighths so we said it
will fill a half inch gap that means
that when you depress this part with the
plastic plug in it
and you push it the whole bottom drops
down like that
if you have to trim this and again up to
only two inch you trim the opposite end
you trim from this side you have to trim
it when the bottom is extended and what
you'll do is you'll insert into this
hole right here one of these nails that
are included to hold it in the extended
position you can then at that point see
that it's flush or the aluminum is flush
and you would trim it at that point
you'll take the distance when the door
is closed you'll measure between the
stops obviously this only mounts on the
push side of the door you'll measure the
distance between the two stops on the
frame and deduct an eighth of an inch
and that would be the size that you cut
this to the package includes screws for
attaching the door bottom it includes
this plate which you'll mount onto the
frame where the plastic plug would make
contact so what happens is when the door
is closed obviously this is in a state
of being pushed in as soon as the door
opens the door separates from the frame
allowing distance between where this is
and the stop so as soon as the door
opens this comes out and the bottom
retracts as soon as the door closes this
comes in contact with the face of this
of the stop of the frame the more you
push the door closed the more that that
will drop down to its position you want
to you want to measure this and make
sure that the amount of gap that you
have and the drop that you have is one
in the same because this will you know
this is a direct mechanical relationship
to the closing of the door you don't
want this to be so tight on the door
that you can't get the door pushed all
the way closed and this still wants to
travel down further because the housing
needs to get pushed back in the the
plastic button needs to get pushed back
into the housing further so you'll want
to line that up correctly the seal is
vinyl typical material
is available in durin attic finish as
well and it's a standard duty door
bottom is what it is it's nice for
conditions where you need a surface
mounted door bottom and a door situation
where you have carpeting on the inside
of a home and you can't have the door
sweep dragged across the floor that sort
of situation that's what you would use a
door bottom form there is a link to the
instructions above this video there's
nothing on it that I need to go into in
more depth because you know you can read
the instructions I don't have to read
them to you they're there for your use
for you to refer to they will come with
the package if you have any questions on
the pemko sa series of automatic door
bottoms or any other pemko product feel
free to reach out to us thank you